and Maran Bashar is alzer's senior
political analyst he joins us now by
Skype from London and Maran I suppose
there is a concern about whether uh
Israel and Hezbollah will um orchestrate
this sort of controlled escalation or
whether or not we're at the point where
that might
change actually uh judging from
statements on both sides they
seem I hate to use the word Rel but they
do seem a bit relieved that this was the
end of that for the day a bit like Zena
has reported in the sense that uh
something was coming it came um and I
think we're sort of back to business as
usual or back to our as someone said
back to our regular War back to our
regular programming with the war on Gaza
and the war on Lebanon being limited but
of course the war on Gaza or the
genocide continues to unravel in fact if
anything uh reports from Israel uh speak
of Netanyahu being relieved in a way
where he doesn't really feel if this is
the
regionalization if this is what hisbah
has in mind then he can go on and and
and continue to obstruct um the
ceasefire negotiations in Cairo that he
is uh you know feels more uh assured
that Israel can continue to
procrastinate without having to pay much
of a price and so does that
then give him that much more confidence
in terms of pursuing uh open-ended
deepening occupation of
Gaza I think that's what it seems to be
at least this afternoon um you know we
are 24 news CH 24hour News Channel right
so we're talking about now post uh the
uh preemptive strike and strike on
Israel there's a sense that uh first of
all the delegation uh the Israeli
delegation in KIRO doesn't have much of
a mandate it seems to actually um
negotiate a serious deal or seriously
negotiate the deal although there is a
you know high ranking American Egyptian
and certainly Kari presence now in Cairo
but the Israeli delegation has not been
given enough Authority by Netanyahu and
it seems like they might actually come
get back to Israel today tomorrow and
but but according to the Israeli reports
there isn't much of a breakthrough
because na just is not is not allowing
it he's not allowing any serious
discussion why do I say serious
discussion because apparently for
example the Israeli delegation presented
something like uh we will allow a
certain number of Hamas Fighters injured
ones to leave Gaza if Hamas agrees to
Israeli military presence in middle of
Gaza in narim and in the south of Gaza
in the phel corridor something that is
so ridiculous and beneath uh you know
discussion by any serious mediator let
alone by Hamas so I think it seems that
the the what's happened the north is not
really influencing much of what's
happening in the south in fact it might
be the opposite in the sense that Nathan
feels
emboldened with the support of the
United States to go on with his genocide
in Gaza
taken all together though Maran you know
we're reporting today on fears about
whether the only functioning Hospital in
central Gaza will be able to keep
treating patients because it's it's in
an area that has been issued with an
evacuation order combined with the
deepening repression in the west bank
and then also a choreograph Telegraph
kind of escalation in the North in
southern Lebanon where people are also
losing their lives how how sustainable
is this does netan feel embold
emboldened enough to continue this for
the foreseeable future even if it
endangers Israel's own
security well you could say that again
judging from today's events that what
netan is trying to do is um see if Hamas
will blink first so I'm not sure they're
thinking too long term because clearly
netan doesn't have an exit strategy from
Gaza except a ceasefire there is no
other exit strategy you cannot occupy
Gaza indefinitely it's not going to work
but certainly not without Hamas and
quickly if you notice the last few days
even weeks uh Israel is killing
civilians but Hamas is actually killing
and injuring Israeli soldiers so there's
a real resistance against the Israel
military presence in Gaza so the idea
that Israel can just you know stay there
in Gaza indefinitely is not possible
that's one two I think this the slow
death the the the hidden death is even
worse
than uh what we report in terms of you
know the bombing of this residential
building and and that school and so on
so forth It's that death from disease
and famine and and just the slow death
in hospitals and in home people would
don't get much of a treatment they can't
get much of a treatment for whatever uh
ails them I think that slow death is
also very hard to report that's the
thing that's really most painful to any
Observer who's looking at what's
happening in Gaza and can only you know
empathize with the people of Gaza who
continue to suffer under this genocide
while the in complicity between the
United States and Israel continue
unabated and any attempt at derailing
that from Lebanon from Iran from various
parts of the Arab world trying to
mediate is just not helping the people
of Gaza as genocide continues to unravel
okay thank you very much Al jazer senior
political analyst Maran Bashar is
speaking to us
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from Al jazer